README.md, before:

# Sprint Challenge - JavaScript Fundamentals

**Read these instructions carefully. Understand exactly what is expected _before_ starting this Sprint Challenge.**

This challenge allows you to practice the concepts and techniques learned over the past week and apply them in project. This Sprint explored JavaScript Fundamentals. During this Sprint, you studied array methods, this keyword, prototypes, and class syntax. In your challenge this week, you will demonstrate proficiency by completing a survey of JavaScript problems.

This is an individual assessment. All work must be your own. Your challenge score is a measure of your ability to work independently using the material covered through this sprint. You need to demonstrate proficiency in the concepts and objectives introduced and practiced in preceding days.

You are not allowed to collaborate during the sprint challenge. However, you are encouraged to follow the twenty-minute rule and seek support from your TL if you need direction. 

_You have **three hours** to complete this challenge. Plan your time accordingly._


## Introduction

You will notice there are several JavaScript files being brought into the index.html file.  Each of those files contain JavaScript problems you need to solve.  If you get stuck on something, skip over it and come back to it later.

In meeting the minimum viable product (MVP) specifications listed below, you should have a console full of correct responses to the problems given.

### Commits

Commit your code regularly and meaningfully. This helps both you (in case you ever need to return to old code for any number of reasons) and your team lead as the evaluate your solution.

## Interview Questions

Be prepared to demonstrate your understanding of this week's concepts by answering questions on the following topics. You might prepare by writing down your own answers before hand.

1. Briefly compare and contrast `.forEach` & `.map` (2-3 sentences max)

2. Explain the difference between a callback and a higher order function.

3. What is closure?

4. Describe the four rules of the 'this' keyword.

5. Why do we need super() in an extended class?

You are expected to be able to answer questions in these areas. Your responses contribute to your Sprint Challenge grade. 

## Instructions

### Task 1: Project Set Up

> This section should include instruction for the sprint challenge. These should only cover things that are _not_ being evaluated by the challenge itself, e.g. environment/project setup, link to a starter project, etc. In general, this will be the following Git fork, clone, branch, commit, push, create pull request flow, though may need to be adapted for some specific challenges.

- [ ] Create a forked copy of this project
- [ ] Add your team lead as collaborator on Github
- [ ] Clone your OWN version of the repository (Not Lambda's by mistake!)
- [ ] Create a new branch: git checkout -b `<firstName-lastName>`.
- [ ] Implement the project on your newly created `<firstName-lastName>` branch, committing changes regularly
- [ ] Push commits: git push origin `<firstName-lastName>`

### Task 2: Project Requirements

Your finished project must include all of the following requirements:

**Pro tip for this challenge: If something seems like it isn't working locally, copy and paste your code up to codepen and take another look at the console.**

#### Task A: Objects and Arrays

Test your knowledge of advanced array methods and callbacks.
* [ ] Use the [arrays-callbacks.js](challenges/arrays-callbacks.js) link to get started.  Read the instructions carefully!

#### Task B: Closure

This challenge takes a look at closures as well as scope. 
* [ ] Use the [closure.js](challenges/closure.js) link to get started. Read the instructions carefully!

#### Task C: Prototypes

Create constructors, bind methods, and create cuboids in this prototypes challenge.
* [ ] Use the [prototypes.js](challenges/prototypes.js) link to get started. Read the instructions carefully!

#### Task D: Classes

Once you have completed the prototypes challenge, it's time to convert all your hard work into classes.
* [ ] Use the [classes.js](challenges/classes.js) link to get started. Read the instructions carefully!

In your solutions, it is essential that you follow best practices and produce clean and professional results. Schedule time to review, refine, and assess your work and perform basic professional polishing including spell-checking and grammar-checking on your work. It is better to submit a challenge that meets MVP than one that attempts too much and does not.

### Task 3: Stretch Goals 

There are a few stretch problems found throughout the files, don't work on them until you are finished with MVP requirements!

## Submission format

Follow these steps for completing your project.

- [ ] Submit a Pull-Request to merge <firstName-lastName> Branch into master (student's  Repo). **Please don't merge your own pull request**
- [ ] Add your team lead as a reviewer on the pull-request
- [ ] Your team lead will count the project as complete after receiving your pull-request

Commit message:

half way done with arrays

README.md, after:

# Sprint Challenge - JavaScript Fundamentals

**Read these instructions carefully. Understand exactly what is expected _before_ starting this Sprint Challenge.**

This challenge allows you to practice the concepts and techniques learned over the past week and apply them in project. This Sprint explored JavaScript Fundamentals. During this Sprint, you studied array methods, this keyword, prototypes, and class syntax. In your challenge this week, you will demonstrate proficiency by completing a survey of JavaScript problems.

This is an individual assessment. All work must be your own. Your challenge score is a measure of your ability to work independently using the material covered through this sprint. You need to demonstrate proficiency in the concepts and objectives introduced and practiced in preceding days.

You are not allowed to collaborate during the sprint challenge. However, you are encouraged to follow the twenty-minute rule and seek support from your TL if you need direction. 

_You have **three hours** to complete this challenge. Plan your time accordingly._


## Introduction

You will notice there are several JavaScript files being brought into the index.html file.  Each of those files contain JavaScript problems you need to solve.  If you get stuck on something, skip over it and come back to it later.

In meeting the minimum viable product (MVP) specifications listed below, you should have a console full of correct responses to the problems given.

### Commits

Commit your code regularly and meaningfully. This helps both you (in case you ever need to return to old code for any number of reasons) and your team lead as the evaluate your solution.

## Interview Questions

Be prepared to demonstrate your understanding of this week's concepts by answering questions on the following topics. You might prepare by writing down your own answers before hand.

1. Briefly compare and contrast `.forEach` & `.map` (2-3 sentences max)
.map returns a new array without manipulating OG,used for converting data,needs the return keyword

.forEach, must iterate through every zoo in an array without stopping,.forEach does not return a new array,return statement is optional
 

2. Explain the difference between a callback and a higher order function.

HOF is using the callback function as a parameter/argument and the callback would be the function that would be invoked by the HOF

3. What is closure?

A function within a function

4. Describe the four rules of the 'this' keyword. 

  1. New makes the this keyword look for things that have this in them when it is used in a constructor
  2. Implicit where the this keyword points to whatever is being called on by a function
  3. Explicit where it uses call, bind, and apply.
  4. Lastly as a function call where it is the global object with strict mode off and returns undefined when strict mode is on.

5. Why do we need super() in an extended class?

super is needed because it's what draws the attributes from the whatever the subclass is extending from.

You are expected to be able to answer questions in these areas. Your responses contribute to your Sprint Challenge grade. 

## Instructions

### Task 1: Project Set Up

> This section should include instruction for the sprint challenge. These should only cover things that are _not_ being evaluated by the challenge itself, e.g. environment/project setup, link to a starter project, etc. In general, this will be the following Git fork, clone, branch, commit, push, create pull request flow, though may need to be adapted for some specific challenges.

- [ ] Create a forked copy of this project
- [ ] Add your team lead as collaborator on Github
- [ ] Clone your OWN version of the repository (Not Lambda's by mistake!)
- [ ] Create a new branch: git checkout -b `<firstName-lastName>`.
- [ ] Implement the project on your newly created `<firstName-lastName>` branch, committing changes regularly
- [ ] Push commits: git push origin `<firstName-lastName>`

### Task 2: Project Requirements

Your finished project must include all of the following requirements:

**Pro tip for this challenge: If something seems like it isn't working locally, copy and paste your code up to codepen and take another look at the console.**

#### Task A: Objects and Arrays

Test your knowledge of advanced array methods and callbacks.
* [ ] Use the [arrays-callbacks.js](challenges/arrays-callbacks.js) link to get started.  Read the instructions carefully!

#### Task B: Closure

This challenge takes a look at closures as well as scope. 
* [ ] Use the [closure.js](challenges/closure.js) link to get started. Read the instructions carefully!

#### Task C: Prototypes

Create constructors, bind methods, and create cuboids in this prototypes challenge.
* [ ] Use the [prototypes.js](challenges/prototypes.js) link to get started. Read the instructions carefully!

#### Task D: Classes

Once you have completed the prototypes challenge, it's time to convert all your hard work into classes.
* [ ] Use the [classes.js](challenges/classes.js) link to get started. Read the instructions carefully!

In your solutions, it is essential that you follow best practices and produce clean and professional results. Schedule time to review, refine, and assess your work and perform basic professional polishing including spell-checking and grammar-checking on your work. It is better to submit a challenge that meets MVP than one that attempts too much and does not.

### Task 3: Stretch Goals 

There are a few stretch problems found throughout the files, don't work on them until you are finished with MVP requirements!

## Submission format

Follow these steps for completing your project.

- [ ] Submit a Pull-Request to merge <firstName-lastName> Branch into master (student's  Repo). **Please don't merge your own pull request**
- [ ] Add your team lead as a reviewer on the pull-request
- [ ] Your team lead will count the project as complete after receiving your pull-request
